README.md, before:

# Numla

**The notepad that thinks in numbers.**

A minimal, beautiful calculator notepad for quick math, currency conversions, and everyday calculations. Just type naturally — Numla figures out the rest.

---

## ✨ Features

### Write naturally, get instant results

```
Rent: $1,200
Utilities: $150
Groceries: $400
sum                           → $1,750
```

### Currency conversions with live rates

```
$500 in EUR                   → € 460
£200 + $100                   → £ 278.50
$2k + 15%                     → $ 2,300
```

### Percentages made simple

```
20% of 150                    → 30
15% off $80                   → $ 68
$50 as a % of $200            → 25
tip: 18% on $45               → $ 53.10
```

### Time & timezone queries

```
time                          → 2:30 PM
New York time                 → 9:30 AM EST
time in Tokyo                 → 11:30 PM JST
```

### Date math

```
next friday                   → 12/6/25
today + 2 weeks               → 12/15/25
christmas - 30 days           → 11/25/25
```

### Unit conversions

```
5 km to miles                 → 3.1069 miles
100 fahrenheit in celsius     → 37.78 celsius
2 hours + 45 minutes          → 2.75 hours
20 cu cm                      → 20 cm³
30 cubic inches               → 30 ″³
11 cbm                        → 11 m³
```

### Variables & running totals

```
$RATE = 75
8 hours * $RATE               → $ 600
prev + 20%                    → $ 720
```

### Organization & Interface

- **Sidebar**: Manage multiple notes, search through them, and create new ones.
- **Tabs**: Quickly switch between open notes.
- **Mobile Ready**: Fully responsive design with a toggleable sidebar for on-the-go calculations.
- **Spotlight**: Press `⌘ K` to instantly search and jump to any note.

---

## 🧮 Full Reference

### Operators

| Natural                  | Symbol | Example                 |
| ------------------------ | ------ | ----------------------- |
| `plus`, `and`, `with`    | `+`    | `5 plus 3` → 8          |
| `minus`, `without`       | `-`    | `10 minus 4` → 6        |
| `times`, `multiplied by` | `*`    | `6 times 7` → 42        |
| `divided by`             | `/`    | `100 divided by 4` → 25 |

### Percentages

| Pattern           | Meaning             | Example                   |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `X% of Y`         | percentage of       | `20% of 50` → 10          |
| `X% on Y`         | add percentage      | `10% on $100` → $110      |
| `X% off Y`        | subtract percentage | `25% off $80` → $60       |
| `X as a % of Y`   | ratio as percent    | `25 as a % of 100` → 25   |
| `X% of what is Y` | reverse percentage  | `20% of what is 30` → 150 |

### Scales

| Scale           | Example                     |
| --------------- | --------------------------- |
| `k` (thousands) | `$2.5k` → $2,500            |
| `M` (millions)  | `1.5M` → 1,500,000          |
| `billion`       | `2 billion` → 2,000,000,000 |

### Number Formats

| Format   | Example                    |
| -------- | -------------------------- |
| `in hex` | `255 in hex` → 0xFF        |
| `in bin` | `10 in bin` → 0b1010       |
| `in oct` | `64 in oct` → 0o100        |
| `in sci` | `1500000 in sci` → 1.50e+6 |

### Special Keywords

| Keyword         | Description                               |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `sum` / `total` | Sum of lines above (resets on empty line) |
| `avg` / `mean`  | Average of lines above                    |
| `prev`          | Result from previous line                 |

### Comments

```
# This is a header (highlighted in yellow)
// This line is ignored
Price: $10    ← Labels are stripped automatically
```

---

## ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts

| Shortcut | Action                  |
| -------- | ----------------------- |
| `⌘ K`    | Search notes            |
| `↑` `↓`  | Navigate search results |
| `Enter`  | Open selected note      |
| `Esc`    | Close search            |

---

## 🌍 Supported Currencies

50+ currencies with live exchange rates updated multiple times daily:

**Major:** USD, EUR, GBP, JPY, CHF, CAD, AUD, CNY  
**European:** SEK, NOK, DKK, PLN, CZK, HUF, RON  
**Asian:** KRW, SGD, HKD, TWD, THB, MYR, INR, IDR, PHP  
**Americas:** MXN, BRL, CLP, COP, ARS  
**Others:** AED, SAR, ZAR, TRY, ILS, NZD

---

## 🕐 Timezones

Query time in major cities and timezone codes:

**Americas:** New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Denver  
**Europe:** London, Paris, Berlin, Madrid, Rome, Amsterdam, Stockholm  
**Asia:** Tokyo, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Mumbai, Dubai  
**Pacific:** Sydney, Melbourne, Auckland

**Codes:** EST, PST, CST, GMT, UTC, CET, JST, HKT, SGT, IST, AEST

---

## 🎨 Design Philosophy

- **Minimal** — No buttons, no clutter. Just you and your calculations.
- **Fast** — Results appear instantly as you type.
- **Beautiful** — Dark mode by default. Light mode available.
- **Private** — Everything stays in your browser. No accounts. No tracking.

---

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Run tests
npm test

# Build for production
npm run build
```

---

## 📄 License

MIT

---

<p align="center">
  <sub>Made with ♥ for people who think in numbers.</sub>
</p>

Commit message:

Implement tab system and per-note theme support
Replaces the top bar with a tab bar for managing multiple open notes, including tab switching, closing, and a new note button. Adds per-note theme memory, moving the theme toggle to the bottom bar and updating theme logic to store preferences per note. Updates UI layout, keyboard shortcuts, and improves placeholder visibility and tab bar styling. Refactors related event handling and documentation.

README.md, after:

# Numla

**The notepad that thinks in numbers.**

A minimal, beautiful calculator notepad for quick math, currency conversions, and everyday calculations. Just type naturally — Numla figures out the rest.

---

## ✨ Features

### Write naturally, get instant results

```
Rent: $1,200
Utilities: $150
Groceries: $400
sum                           → $1,750
```

### Currency conversions with live rates

```
$500 in EUR                   → € 460
£200 + $100                   → £ 278.50
$2k + 15%                     → $ 2,300
```

### Percentages made simple

```
20% of 150                    → 30
15% off $80                   → $ 68
$50 as a % of $200            → 25
tip: 18% on $45               → $ 53.10
```

### Time & timezone queries

```
time                          → 2:30 PM
New York time                 → 9:30 AM EST
time in Tokyo                 → 11:30 PM JST
```

### Date math

```
next friday                   → 12/6/25
today + 2 weeks               → 12/15/25
christmas - 30 days           → 11/25/25
```

### Unit conversions

```
5 km to miles                 → 3.1069 miles
100 fahrenheit in celsius     → 37.78 celsius
2 hours + 45 minutes          → 2.75 hours
20 cu cm                      → 20 cm³
30 cubic inches               → 30 ″³
11 cbm                        → 11 m³
```

### Variables & running totals

```
$RATE = 75
8 hours * $RATE               → $ 600
prev + 20%                    → $ 720
```

### Organization & Interface

- **Tab System**: Open multiple notes as tabs for easy switching. Click the `+` button to create a new note.
- **Spotlight Search**: Press `⌘K` to instantly search and jump to any note.
- **New Note**: Press `⌘J` or click the `+` tab to create a new note.
- **Per-Note Theme**: Each note remembers its own light/dark mode preference.
- **Export**: Download any note as a `.txt` file.
- **Mobile Ready**: Fully responsive design for on-the-go calculations.
- **Bottom Bar**: Shows note title, timestamp, and quick actions (export, delete, theme toggle).

---

## 🧮 Full Reference

### Operators

| Natural                  | Symbol | Example                 |
| ------------------------ | ------ | ----------------------- |
| `plus`, `and`, `with`    | `+`    | `5 plus 3` → 8          |
| `minus`, `without`       | `-`    | `10 minus 4` → 6        |
| `times`, `multiplied by` | `*`    | `6 times 7` → 42        |
| `divided by`             | `/`    | `100 divided by 4` → 25 |

### Percentages

| Pattern           | Meaning             | Example                   |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `X% of Y`         | percentage of       | `20% of 50` → 10          |
| `X% on Y`         | add percentage      | `10% on $100` → $110      |
| `X% off Y`        | subtract percentage | `25% off $80` → $60       |
| `X as a % of Y`   | ratio as percent    | `25 as a % of 100` → 25   |
| `X% of what is Y` | reverse percentage  | `20% of what is 30` → 150 |

### Scales

| Scale           | Example                     |
| --------------- | --------------------------- |
| `k` (thousands) | `$2.5k` → $2,500            |
| `M` (millions)  | `1.5M` → 1,500,000          |
| `billion`       | `2 billion` → 2,000,000,000 |

### Number Formats

| Format   | Example                    |
| -------- | -------------------------- |
| `in hex` | `255 in hex` → 0xFF        |
| `in bin` | `10 in bin` → 0b1010       |
| `in oct` | `64 in oct` → 0o100        |
| `in sci` | `1500000 in sci` → 1.50e+6 |

### Special Keywords

| Keyword         | Description                               |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `sum` / `total` | Sum of lines above (resets on empty line) |
| `avg` / `mean`  | Average of lines above                    |
| `prev`          | Result from previous line                 |

### Comments

```
# This is a header (highlighted in yellow)
// This line is ignored
Price: $10    ← Labels are stripped automatically
```

---

## ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts

| Shortcut | Action                  |
| -------- | ----------------------- |
| `⌘ J`    | Create new note         |
| `⌘ K`    | Search notes            |
| `↑` `↓`  | Navigate search results |
| `Enter`  | Open selected note      |
| `Esc`    | Close search / modal    |

---

## 🗂️ Tab System

Work with multiple notes simultaneously using the tab bar:

- **Open tabs**: Click on any note in search results to open it as a tab
- **Switch tabs**: Click on a tab to switch to that note
- **Close tabs**: Click the `×` on a tab to close it
- **New tab**: Click the `+` button at the end of the tab bar (or press `⌘J`)

---

## 🌍 Supported Currencies

50+ currencies with live exchange rates updated multiple times daily:

**Major:** USD, EUR, GBP, JPY, CHF, CAD, AUD, CNY  
**European:** SEK, NOK, DKK, PLN, CZK, HUF, RON  
**Asian:** KRW, SGD, HKD, TWD, THB, MYR, INR, IDR, PHP  
**Americas:** MXN, BRL, CLP, COP, ARS  
**Others:** AED, SAR, ZAR, TRY, ILS, NZD

---

## 🕐 Timezones

Query time in major cities and timezone codes:

**Americas:** New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Denver  
**Europe:** London, Paris, Berlin, Madrid, Rome, Amsterdam, Stockholm  
**Asia:** Tokyo, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Mumbai, Dubai  
**Pacific:** Sydney, Melbourne, Auckland

**Codes:** EST, PST, CST, GMT, UTC, CET, JST, HKT, SGT, IST, AEST

---

## 🎨 Design Philosophy

- **Minimal** — No buttons cluttering your view. Just you and your calculations.
- **Fast** — Results appear instantly as you type.
- **Beautiful** — Dark mode by default. Light mode available. Per-note theme memory.
- **Private** — Everything stays in your browser. No accounts. No tracking.

---

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Run tests
npm test

# Build for production
npm run build
```

---

## 📄 License

MIT

---

<p align="center">
  <sub>Made with ♥ for people who think in numbers.</sub>
</p>
